index.md, before:

--- 
extra_content: "<p>Read more about the community's background <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Midgard_%28software%29#History\">on Wikipedia</a> or follow the development <a href=\"https://github.com/midgardproject\">on GitHub</a>.</p><p>Midgard works actively with many related communities like <a href=\"http://www.gnome.org/\">GNOME</a>, <a href=\"http://cmf.symfony.com/\">Symfony CMF</a>, and the <a href=\"http://www.iks-project.eu/\">IKS project</a>.</p>"
tagline: "Providing tools for a better Web since 1999"
layout: project
logo: /images/midgard_white.png
product_categories: 
  - 
    label: Applications
    products: 
      - 
        label: Create.js
        tagline: "Website editing without forms"
        url: "http://createjs.org/"
        logo: /images/logos/midgardcreate_black_70.png
      - 
        label: OpenPSA
        tagline: "Management software for consultancies"
        url: "http://openpsa2.org/"
        logo: /images/logos/openpsa_black_70.png
  - 
    label: "Web Frameworks"
    products: 
      - 
        label: "Midgard MVC"
        tagline: "Component-oriented web framework for PHP"
        url: /midgardmvc/
        logo: /images/logos/midgardmvc_black_70.png
      - 
        label: MidCOM
        tagline: "Tightly coupled PHP framework and CMS for Midgard"
        url: /midcom/
        logo: /images/logos/midcom_black_70.png
  - 
    label: "Content Repositories"
    products: 
      - 
        label: Midgard2
        tagline: "Generic Content Repository for Web and Desktop applications"
        url: /midgard2/
        logo: /images/logos/midgard2_black_70.png
      - 
        label: "Midgard1"
        tagline: "Legacy Web Content Repository for PHP"
        url: /midgard1/
        logo: /images/logos/midgard1_black_70.png
      -
        label: "Midgard2 PHPCR"
        tagline: "Standard PHP Content Repository implementation"
        url: /phpcr/
        logo: /images/logos/midgard2_black_70.png
title: "The Midgard Project"
---
Midgard is a **free software community** aiming to build **content repositories** useful for synchronized desktop, mobile and web applications. Since 1999, the project has been releasing both the content repository library itself, and also many useful tools around it, like **web frameworks** for PHP and Python.
  
The community is fully volunteer-driven, with individuals and multiple companies working together to build useful common infrastructure.

Commit message:

Link to the decoupled content management paper

index.md, after:

--- 
extra_content: "<p>Midgard is part of the <a href=\"http://bergie.iki.fi/blog/decoupling_content_management/\">Decoupled Content Management</a> movement and works actively with many related communities like <a href=\"http://www.gnome.org/\">GNOME</a>, <a href=\"http://cmf.symfony.com/\">Symfony CMF</a>, and the <a href=\"http://www.iks-project.eu/\">IKS project</a>.</p><p>Read more about the community's background <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Midgard_%28software%29#History\">on Wikipedia</a> or follow the development <a href=\"https://github.com/midgardproject\">on GitHub</a>.</p>"
tagline: "Providing tools for a better Web since 1999"
layout: project
logo: /images/midgard_white.png
product_categories: 
  - 
    label: Applications
    products: 
      - 
        label: Create.js
        tagline: "Website editing without forms"
        url: "http://createjs.org/"
        logo: /images/logos/midgardcreate_black_70.png
      - 
        label: OpenPSA
        tagline: "Management software for consultancies"
        url: "http://openpsa2.org/"
        logo: /images/logos/openpsa_black_70.png
  - 
    label: "Web Frameworks"
    products: 
      - 
        label: "Midgard MVC"
        tagline: "Component-oriented web framework for PHP"
        url: /midgardmvc/
        logo: /images/logos/midgardmvc_black_70.png
      - 
        label: MidCOM
        tagline: "Tightly coupled PHP framework and CMS for Midgard"
        url: /midcom/
        logo: /images/logos/midcom_black_70.png
  - 
    label: "Content Repositories"
    products: 
      - 
        label: Midgard2
        tagline: "Generic Content Repository for Web and Desktop applications"
        url: /midgard2/
        logo: /images/logos/midgard2_black_70.png
      - 
        label: "Midgard1"
        tagline: "Legacy Web Content Repository for PHP"
        url: /midgard1/
        logo: /images/logos/midgard1_black_70.png
      -
        label: "Midgard2 PHPCR"
        tagline: "Standard PHP Content Repository implementation"
        url: /phpcr/
        logo: /images/logos/midgard2_black_70.png
title: "The Midgard Project"
---
Midgard is a **free software community** aiming to build **content repositories** useful for synchronized desktop, mobile and web applications. Since 1999, the project has been releasing both the content repository library itself, and also many useful tools around it, like **web frameworks** for PHP and Python.
  
The community is fully volunteer-driven, with individuals and multiple companies working together to build useful common infrastructure.
