---
layout: default
title: Datagard
name: datagard
tags:
  - documentation
---
atagard is the command-line tool for managing Midgard installations. After you have installed the Midgard1 packages on your system you can use it for setting up the Midgard environment.

Basic and easiest setup can be done by just running _datagard_ command. Datagard will ask you questions, and guide you step by step through setup process.

Datagard will do the following operations for you:

*   Set up a Midgard1 MySQL database
*   Create a new Apache virtual host to be used with Midgard
*   Install and set up a MidCOM environment

### Command line options

_-t_ type of the setup

Type of the setup:

*   _quick_, datagard tries to determine sensible defaults for all configurations (this is usually a good choice for upgrades as then datagard reads the settings from the configuration file)
*   _wizard_ (the default if you don't specify type), datagard asks about every single configuration option

_-c_ file

Specifies user defined configuration file name (the default is _midgard_ if you leave out _-c_) _-a &amp;lt;action&amp;gt;_ Action type selection. Possible actions are:

*   _install_, the default if you don't specify action - installs the database and the Midgard PEAR packages, and then creates a virtual host
*   _upgrade_, upgrade the database and the MidCOM PEAR packages<
*   _vhost_, create a new virtual host. This operation requires that the database contains a style template for the vhost. Style templates are imported to the db during the install action
*   _dbinstall_, install a new database and its configuration file. Remember to specify the database name using the _-c_ option if you already have a database called _midgard._&#xA0;Keep in mind that this action doesn't import style templates to the db like the install action does
*   _dbupdate_, update the database structure
*   _pear_, install/upgrade Midgard PEAR package(s). Needs Midgard version to be at least the same as the version of the PEAR packages, because the database structure isn't updated beforehand
*   _sitegroup_, create a new domain/sitegroup

_-p_ package name

Install a given application or component. 

When installing a new site with application like OpenPSA: 

    # datagard -a install -p openpsa

When installing/updating new component like `midcom_helper_search` to an existing Midgard CMS installation:

  # datagard -a pear -p midcom_helper_search

_-v_ level

Sets verbosity level, numeric option. The default value is 0
