---
title: "How MidCOM works"
name: process
---
Ideally, a MidCOM-based web site consists of one or more MidCOM Components only, though Midgard's fundamental design makes it very easy to use MidCOM along with traditional Midgard applications or web sites and even with plain file-based web content.

Every Component contains a complete application module: It might depend on other Components to work, but it should fulfil a defined task independently. For example, a MidCOM Component could handle the management and display of a certain article type ("product information", "news item") on a web site. In a web-based application environment, it may contain the whole web frontend of a custom-built CRM system. After all, it is up to the Component author to define how broad or narrow to design its features.

Technically speaking, MidCOM establishes a [Model-View-Controller concept](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model%E2%80%93view%E2%80%93controller) within Midgard. This specification primarily defines the outline of component packaging. A component in this sense is the combination of business logic (what to do), default configuration (default data structure, default operation mode) and default style (default presentation information).

A correctly designed component can be deployed to another Midgard installation by simply installing the component's PEAR package and creating a site-specific style (HTML design) for it. Therefore, the ideal MidCOM Website completely relies on its components having no application-specific logic anywhere else than within the components themselves.

Each component exposes a strictly defined interface to the underlying MidCOM framework and Midgard itself. MidCOM uses Midgard's topic tree to link incoming HTTP requests to their corresponding Components, thus controlling a Component's assignment to a certain area of a web site or a certain type of content object. Using the topic tree instead of the page tree - which has the same role in traditional Midgard environments - gives users much more flexibility for providing advanced features.

The MidCOM framework passes requests to the Components, provides support for them in several areas (such as building a consistent navigation interface for a complex web site with multiple independent Components) and assembles their data management capabilities into a single administration interface to the user. For example, a secretary managing the news and press sections of her company web site does neither feel nor needs to know that she is working with two different Components as she makes her changes within a consistently designed CMS interface.
