---
name: solr
title: "Site search using Solr"
---
Solr is an open source enterprise search server based on the Lucene Java search library, with XML/HTTP and JSON APIs, hit highlighting, faceted search, caching, replication, and a web administration interface. It runs in a Java servlet container such as Tomcat.

That means that to use Solr you will need to run in some Java servlet container. 

##  Using solr-tomcat5.5

On Ubuntu et co we have this package available and dependency of the midgard metapackage, so after installing just do the following:

1. Make sure the Catalina process uses [UTF-8 for URI parsing][utf8]
2. Download the [MidCOM Solr Schema][schema] and copy over `/etc/solr/conf/schema.xml`
3. Configure your website to use the indexer
   Set the following values in  `code-init-before-midcom`:

        $GLOBALS['midcom_config_local']['indexer_reindex_allowed_ips'] = array ( '127.0.0.1', 'server.main.ip' );
        $GLOBALS['midcom_config_local']['indexer_backend'] = 'solr';
        $GLOBALS['midcom_config_local']['indexer_xmltcp_host'] = 'localhost';
        $GLOBALS['midcom_config_local']['indexer_xmltcp_port'] = '8180';
        
    
If you get `java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError` in Tomcat logs you may need to [disable Tomcat security][secerror]

[utf8]: http://wiki.apache.org/tomcat/FAQ/CharacterEncoding#Q2
[schema]: http://trac.midgard-project.org/browser/trunk/external-tools/indexer-backends/solr/schema.xml
[secerror]: http://yousefourabi.com/blog/2007/12/running-solr-on-debian-with-tomcat/

## Using Jetty

**Warning:** This section is very old, we suggest using Tomcat

### Dependencies
On Debian you need the following packages:

    apt-get install libmx4j-java libregexp-java libsablevm-classlib1-java libservlet2.4-java libtomcat5.5-java libxerces2-java sun-java5-jdk

### Installing Jetty

Solr comes with Jetty in the example directory. 

### Installing Solr

**Note:** You must use version 1.1 of Solr

1. Download Solr from the Solr website
<http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.cgi/lucene/solr/>

2. Unpack solr and copy the jetty example install to the jetty home.

       unzip apache-solr-1.1\*.zip  
       cp -R apache-solr-1.1\*/example /usr/share/jetty

3. Download the setupfiles for Solr. (Currently just for Debian)

    svn co https://svn.midgard-project.org/midgard/trunk/external-tools/indexer-backends/solr  
    cd solr  
    bash ./install-solr.sh

This will install setupfiles in the correct places and set the correct permissions.

4. Start solr

    /etc/init.d/jetty start

Now solr is running and listening to requests on port 8983.

5. Create a topic with the Search component. 

6. In the menu, choose website -> website configuration. 

7. Set the following values:

  * Indexer: Solr
  * Hostname of indexer xmltcp service: localhost (or the host solr is running on)
  * Port of indexer xmltcp service: 8983

8. Reindex your site.
Visit `/midcom-exec-midcom/reindex.php`. This will take some time.

9. You should now be able to run searches on your site. 

### Security

In the `addListener` definition in `jetty.xml`, add the following:

    <Set name="Host">localhost</Set>

So Jetty doesn't listen to requests from the outside. If you want to still access the admin interface, use firewall scripts to hide the port from most users. 

See <http://wiki.apache.org/solr/SolrSecurity> for more information.

### Troubleshooting

#### "Authorization required"

When you're running `midcom-exec-midcom/reindex.php`, and you get "Authorization required" errors, you should modify the `indexer_reindex_allowed_ips`. Either set it in `/etc/midgard/midcom.conf` or in the host settings.

For the `midcom.conf` file, you need to add:

    $GLOBALS['midcom_config_site']['indexer_reindex_allowed_ips'] = array('127.0.0.1','192.168.126.128','127.0.1.1');

#### "Indexer failed"

If you get an "indexer failed" error when reindexing the site, ensure that SOLR's data directory exists and is writable:

    mkdir /usr/share/jetty/solr/data  
    chown jetty /usr/share/jetty/solr/data
