---
name: styles
title: "Modifying component output"
---
MidCOM components use the style engine for all their output, meaning that site builders can easily __modify all component output__ by simply overriding templating.

## Default style elements

MidCOM components ship a set of templates that are stored in the `style` subdirectory of the component.

The template files are regular PHP files that are executed in their own context.

__Example:__ [Templates of net.nehmer.blog in SVN][1]

## Overriding the templates

You can override any output template of a component by logging into Asgard and creating a new substyle under your site's style. It is a good idea to name the substyles according to their use, like _Photo gallery_ or _Blog_.

Then copy the style template that you want to override from the component and create a `midgard_element` with the same name (but trailing `.php` removed) under your new substyle and paste the contents there. Make some change and save it.

Then log into your site and click `Edit Topic`. In the editor you'll have a pulldown for selecting a _Style_. Select your new substyle.

Then simply go to the site and see how the changes have taken effect. 

If your site uses output caching, you might have to access the `/midcom-cache-invalidate` URL first.

## Dynamic Loading

__Dynamic Load__ is a MidCOM method which loads content dynamically from components.

Example: loading 5 latest news items from a _net.nehmer.blog_ folder:

    <?php
      $_MIDCOM->dynamic_load("/news/latest/5");
    ?>

### Substyles

Dynamic load can also be used to utilize a substyle for component's output:

    <?php
      // Using a substyle called 'frontpage'
      $_MIDCOM->dynamic_load("/midcom-substyle-frontpage/news/latest/5");
    ?>

The used substyle is loaded as a child style under the style which is used for the loaded folder.

[1]: http://trac.midgard-project.org/browser/branches/ragnaroek/midcom/net.nehmer.blog/style 
