---
layout: default
title: "Midgard MVC request process" 
name: process
---
Basic building blocks:

*   **Application**: a configuration file describing the components and other settings used in a Midgard MVC website
*   **Component**: a PHP module intended to run as part of a web application. For example: a news listing. Provides routes, controllers and templates
*   **Library**: a PHP module that can be called by other modules to perform some task. Does not run as part of a website. For example: a form validation library
*   **Service**: a standardized interface to access a given functionality. For example: authentication
*   **Provider**: a standardized interface to access given information. For example: hierarchy. The difference between Services and Providers is that Services perform tasks while Providers merely provide access to a particular type of data

### Bootstrapping

*   Midgard MVC bootstrap PHP file (`framework.php`) is called
*   Midgard MVC bootstrap registers an autoloader (`midgardmvc_core::autoload()`) that will be used for loading the necessary PHP files
*   Front controller (`midgardmvc_core::get_instance()`) starts
*   Front controller loads configuration from a configuration provider
*   Front controller loads component providers specified in configuration
*   Front controller loads hierarchy providers specified in configuration

### Request processing

*   A request object gets populated with the current HTTP request parameters
*   Process injectors are called, if the loaded components registered any
*   Request object uses hierarchy providers to determine what components handle the request
*   Request object loads the necessary component
*   Front controller passes the request object to the Dispatcher
*   Dispatcher dispatches the request to the component controller class, passing it the request object
*   Component controller class executes and sets data to the request object

### Templating

*   Front controller loads template providers specified in configuration
*   Template injectors are called, if the loaded components registered any
*   Front controller determines template to be used with the request
*   Front controller uses a template provider to generate request output
*   Request output is sent to browser

### Midgard MVC Front Controller

The Midgard MVC Front Controller midgardmvc_core is responsible for catching a HTTP request and ensuring it gets processed and templated. The Front Controller implements a Singleton pattern, meaning that only a single Midgard MVC Front Controller is available at a time.

The Front Controller is accessible via:

    $mvc = midgardmvc_core::get_instance();

### Midgard MVC Dispatcher

The Midgard MVC Dispatcher receives a Request object and instantiates and calls the necessary Components and Controllers, and calls their action methods.

The Dispatcher is accessible via:

    $dispatcher = midgardmvc_core::get_instance()->dispatcher;
    $dispatcher->dispatch($request);

Depending on what Controllers and action methods were called (if any), this will either return the Request object with some new data populated or cause an Exception to be thrown.
